🔰 1. Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration tool or system that is used to automate tasks such as the 
management, monitoring, scaling, and deployment of containerized applications.

🔰 2. Orchestration refers to the integration of multiple services that allows them to 
automate processes or synchronize information in a timely fashion. 

🔰 3. Say, for example, you have six or seven microservices for an application to run. 
If you place them in separate containers, this would inevitably create obstacles for communication. 

🔰 4. Orchestration would help in such a situation by enabling all services in individual containers 
to work seamlessly to accomplish a single goal. 

🔰5. Benefits:

--->Kubernetes supports a wide variety of workloads, programming languages and frameworks, 
enabling stateless, stateful, and data-processing workloads.

---> High availability  can be achieved using k8s.

--->Kubernetes manages various clusters at the same time.
 
--->Kubernetes self-monitors the health of nodes and containers. 

--->With Kubernetes, users can scale resources not only vertically but also horizontally that too easily and quickly.

🔰6.  A node is the smallest fundamental unit of computing hardware. It represents a single machine in a cluster, 
which could be a physical machine in a data center or a virtual machine from a cloud provider. 
Each machine can substitute any other machine in a Kubernetes cluster. The master in Kubernetes controls the nodes that have containers.

🔰6.1 A replication controller is referred to as RC in short. It is a wrapper on a pod.
This provides additional functionality to the pods, which offers replicas. 
🔰7. Replica Set, on the other hand, is referred to as rs in short. It is told as the next-generation replication controller. 

--->This kind of support has some selector types and supports the equality-based and the set-based selectors. 

--->Replica Set is same as Replication Controller. The only difference is RS is good in management than RC

--->Equality based selector is based on an operator where it is more computer-readable. 

--->The set-based selector is an advanced concept and more human-readable, and can handle more operation easily.

--->Set based searching is the newer approach used by Replica Set. 

🔰8. RC(Replication Controller) is a resource or one of the feature in K8S to scale-in scale-out pods according to our customization and requirement. 

🔰9. If the pod terminates then RC launches same replica with same tag of all the pods. 

🔰10. It uses current and desired stated to maintain the desired state.
----> if current < desired, scale-out happen
----> if current > desired, then scale-in happen 
(incase of load) 
🔰11. Replica can be defined as Launching of Mirror image of pods in case of K8S. 

🔰12. Create and apply are the keyword to run code in K8S. In create, we cannot run edited and appended code. We can use it once.

🔰13. In apply, we can run edited and appended code. 

🔰14. Labels are the tags. 

🔰15. Labels are used by RC to launch replicas of pods with the help of template of pods.

🔰16. Namespaces are used for dividing cluster resources between multiple users.
------------> the initial namespaces from which Kubernetes starts:
Default
Kube – system
Kube – public

🔰17. Kube-proxy is an implementation of a load balancer and network proxy used to support service abstraction with other networking operations. Kube-proxy is responsible for directing traffic to the right container based on IP and the port number of incoming requests.

🔰 18. A Kubernetes service is a logical abstraction for a deployed group of pods in a cluster (which all perform the same function).
------------> ClusterIP. Exposes a service which is only accessible from within the cluster.
------------> NodePort. Exposes a service via a static port on each node’s IP.
------------> LoadBalancer. Exposes the service via the cloud provider’s load balancer.
------------> ExternalName. Maps a service to a predefined externalName field by returning a value for the CNAME record.

🔰 19. In Kubernetes, a deployment is a method of launching a pod with containerized applications and ensuring that the necessary number of replicas is always running on the cluster.

On the other hand, a service is responsible for exposing an interface to those pods, which enables network access from either within the cluster or between external processes and the service.

🔰 20. The Kubernetes API is the front end of the Kubernetes control plane and is how users interact with their Kubernetes cluster. The API (application programming interface) server determines if a request is valid and then processes it.

🔰 The Kubernetes API lets you query and manipulate the state of objects in Kubernetes

🔰 21. Pods are high-level structures that wrap one or more containers. This is because containers are not run directly in Kubernetes. 
Containers in the same pod share a local network and the same resources, allowing them to easily communicate with other containers in 
the same pod as if they were on the same machine while at the same time maintaining a degree of isolation.

🔰 22. Minikube is a tool that makes it easy to run Kubernetes locally. This runs a single-node Kubernetes cluster inside a virtual machine.
🔰 23. Master services:

Kube-apiserver: Master API service which acts as an entry point to K8 cluster.
Kube-scheduler: Schedule PODs according to available resources on executor nodes.
Kube-controller-manager:  is a control loop that watches the shared state of the cluster through the apiserver and makes changes attempting to move the current state towards the desired stable state

🔰 24. A Heapster is a metrics collection and performance monitoring system for data that are collected by the Kublet.
🔰 25. Daemon sets are a set of pods that runs on a host. They are used for host layers attributes like monitoring network or simple network.
🔰 26. Etcd is written in Go programming language and is a distributed key-value store used for coordinating distributed work. So, Etcd stores the configuration data of the Kubernetes cluster, representing the state of the cluster at any given point in time.

🔰 27. Ingress network is a collection of rules that acts as an entry point to the Kubernetes cluster. This allows inbound connections, which can be configured to give services externally through reachable URLs, load balance traffic, or by offering name-based virtual hosting. 

🔰 28. So, Ingress is an API object that manages external access to the services in a cluster, usually by HTTP and is the most powerful way of exposing service.
